README.md, before:

# HOIF Estimator Computation Update
---

### **Update - 2024-12-19** 📢

The higher-order (now up to **the sixth** order) computation code for the HOIF (sHOIF/eHOIF) estimator has been updated and is now available in the **"HOIF_function"** folder. 

---

---

### **Update - 2024-12-16** 📢

The higher-order (now up to **the fifth** order) computation code for the HOIF (sHOIF/eHOIF) estimator has been updated and is now available in the **"HOIF_function"** folder. 

---



# Falsification using higher order influence functions for double machine learning estimators of causal effects

# Introduction
Here we provide the code to reproduce the analysis described in: 

# Organization
- `create_simulation_parameters_continuous_X.R` — simulates training and oracle samples, fits nuisance parameters models in the training sample, and computes inverse Gram matrices for the simulation with continuous X.
- `continuous_X_sim.R` — simulates estimation samples, computes estimates of counterfactual means, and computes second order bias estimates for the simulation with continuous X.
- `continuous_X_sim_choose_stopping_k.R` — uses the approach described in the supplement to choose k for simulation with continuous X.
- `create_simulation_parameters_binary_X.R` — simulates training and oracle samples, fits nuisance parameters models in the training sample, and computes inverse Gram matrices for the simulation with binary X.
- `binary_X_sim.R` — simulates estimation samples, computes estimates of counterfactual means, and computes second order bias estimates for the simulation with binary X.
- `compute_bias_all_sims.R` — computes the conditional bias, and the Cauchy-Schwarz bias for simulations with binary and continuous X.
- `create_simulation_parameters_CRC_GAN_data.R` — simulates training and oracle samples, fits nuisance parameters models in the training sample, and computes inverse Gram matrices for the simulation with artificial data based on the National Cancer Database.
- `CRC_GAN_sim.R` — simulates estimation samples, computes estimates of counterfactual means, and computes second order bias estimates for the simulation with artificial data based on the National Cancer Database.
- `create_parameters_CRC_real_data.R` — sample splits, fits nuisance parameters models, and computes inverse Gram matrices for analysis of the National Cancer Database.
- `CRC_real_data_analysis.R` — computes cross-fit estimates of counterfactual means (and the risk difference), and estimates of the second order bias.
- `CRC_real_data_analysis_choose_stopping_k.R` — uses the approach described in the supplement to choose k for analysis of the National Cancer Database.
- `process_outputs.R` — R file which reproduces the tables and figures displayed in the main text, summarizing simulation results. 
- `process_outputs_supplement.R` — R file which reproduces the tables and figures displayed in the supplement, summarizing simulation results.
- `src`  — Folder containing scripts with functions and dependencies to be called by the above files.
- `params`  — Folder should be created to which simulation parameters, which are outputs of `create_simulation_parameters...`, are saved.
- `output`  — Folder to which simulation outputs are saved.
- `figures`  — Folder containing figures, which are outputs of `process_outputs.R` and `process_outputs_supplement.R`.

# Correspondence
If you have any questions, comments, or discover an error, please contact Kerollos Wanis at knwanis@gmail.com.

Commit message:

Fix typo in eHOIF and update README with new features
Fixed a typo in the eHOIF implementation and added an optional random seed for sample splitting. Updated README with new features and R package recommendation.

README.md, after:

# HOIF Estimator Computation Update
---

### **Update - 2026-01-30** 📢
A fatal typo in the eHOIF implementation inside [**HOIF_function/**](HOIF_function) has been fixed and rigorously verified via full enumeration.

Function signature remains **unchanged**.  
The only new feature is an optional random seed for sample splitting (default = 42).

For better performance, elegant API, arbitrary-order support (including >6), and faster execution, please use the new dedicated R package:  
[**HOIF**](https://github.com/cxy0714/HOIF) → `devtools::install_github("cxy0714/HOIF")`

(⚠️But note: when order > 7, complexity exceeds O(n⁴))

oh god, what kind of shit code did I write a year ago... 

---

### **Update - 2024-12-19** 📢

The higher-order (now up to **the sixth** order) computation code for the HOIF (sHOIF/eHOIF) estimator has been updated and is now available in the [**HOIF_function/**](HOIF_function) folder. 

---

---

### **Update - 2024-12-16** 📢

The higher-order (now up to **the fifth** order) computation code for the HOIF (sHOIF/eHOIF) estimator has been updated and is now available in the [**HOIF_function/**](HOIF_function) folder. 

---



# Falsification using higher order influence functions for double machine learning estimators of causal effects

# Introduction
Here we provide the code to reproduce the analysis described in: 

# Organization
- `create_simulation_parameters_continuous_X.R` — simulates training and oracle samples, fits nuisance parameters models in the training sample, and computes inverse Gram matrices for the simulation with continuous X.
- `continuous_X_sim.R` — simulates estimation samples, computes estimates of counterfactual means, and computes second order bias estimates for the simulation with continuous X.
- `continuous_X_sim_choose_stopping_k.R` — uses the approach described in the supplement to choose k for simulation with continuous X.
- `create_simulation_parameters_binary_X.R` — simulates training and oracle samples, fits nuisance parameters models in the training sample, and computes inverse Gram matrices for the simulation with binary X.
- `binary_X_sim.R` — simulates estimation samples, computes estimates of counterfactual means, and computes second order bias estimates for the simulation with binary X.
- `compute_bias_all_sims.R` — computes the conditional bias, and the Cauchy-Schwarz bias for simulations with binary and continuous X.
- `create_simulation_parameters_CRC_GAN_data.R` — simulates training and oracle samples, fits nuisance parameters models in the training sample, and computes inverse Gram matrices for the simulation with artificial data based on the National Cancer Database.
- `CRC_GAN_sim.R` — simulates estimation samples, computes estimates of counterfactual means, and computes second order bias estimates for the simulation with artificial data based on the National Cancer Database.
- `create_parameters_CRC_real_data.R` — sample splits, fits nuisance parameters models, and computes inverse Gram matrices for analysis of the National Cancer Database.
- `CRC_real_data_analysis.R` — computes cross-fit estimates of counterfactual means (and the risk difference), and estimates of the second order bias.
- `CRC_real_data_analysis_choose_stopping_k.R` — uses the approach described in the supplement to choose k for analysis of the National Cancer Database.
- `process_outputs.R` — R file which reproduces the tables and figures displayed in the main text, summarizing simulation results. 
- `process_outputs_supplement.R` — R file which reproduces the tables and figures displayed in the supplement, summarizing simulation results.
- `src`  — Folder containing scripts with functions and dependencies to be called by the above files.
- `params`  — Folder should be created to which simulation parameters, which are outputs of `create_simulation_parameters...`, are saved.
- `output`  — Folder to which simulation outputs are saved.
- `figures`  — Folder containing figures, which are outputs of `process_outputs.R` and `process_outputs_supplement.R`.

# Correspondence
If you have any questions, comments, or discover an error, please contact Kerollos Wanis at knwanis@gmail.com.
